---
title: "How does Spotify Codes Work?"
date: 2021-12-31T11:08:50+05:30
draft: false

---


# How does Spotify Codes Work?
Links
	https://www.spotifycodes.com/
	https://boonepeter.github.io/posts/2020-11-10-spotify-codes/	

https://hackerone.com/spotify. great idea, but it was possible to pass in the bug bounty



barcodes
QR codes lil history maybe

## Spotify codes 

I love music and I spend most of my day listening to songs. Spotify codes caught my eye from past some days, so I went on finding how do they work. 
I thought I should share this journey, how even the maker of Spotify codes Ludvig Strigeus,(also the maker of utorrent)was involved.

set out to figure out how they worked, which led me on a winding journey through barcode history, patents, packet sniffing, error correction, and Gray tables.

Spotify Codes are like QR-codes that can be generated to easily share Spotify songs, artists, playlists, and users.

Spotify URIs	
Spotify URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers). Different pieces of media (artists, albums, songs, playlists, users) all have a URI.

A URI is a code you can use for embedding and searching within the Spotify app. Spotify URI codes look like this: spotify:user:spotify:playlist:37i9dQZF1DXcBWIGoYBM5M. 

The 22 characters are the numbers 0-9, characters a-z and A-Z. This means there are 10 + 26 + 26 = 62 possibilities for each character (almost Base64). So the potential number of Spotify URIs is 62^22 which is equal to 2.7e39 which is a veryyy longgg digit so Spotify is not running out of these any time soon.

Spotify Codes 
When the bars are sorted by height you can see that there are 8 discrete heights that they fall into.

Image 

Code 1
This is the sequence of the “Take On Me” Spotify code:

>>> get_heights("/imgs/spotify/spotify_track_6vQN2a9QSgWcm74KEZYfDL.jpg")
[0, 5, 1, 2, 0, 6, 4, 3, 7, 1, 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 3, 1, 6, 3, 7, 0, 7, 0]

According to StackOverflow discussion,
The barcode consists of 23 bars, of which only 20 contain information. This means that there are 8^20 pieces of information that can be encoded into the code.

A media reference is first generated by Spotify for a Spotify URI(link to URI para).
The media reference is what gets encoded into the barcode and links the barcode to the URI. Spotify maintains a database of media references to URI mappings. Media references let Spotify track which codes are scanned, enable them to theoretically re-map codes, and just look better when encoded(which they successfully made it look, omg I love the aesthetics)


Simple no, no it isn't. There is a lot more which goes on in the background.
Problems :
Big to small barcode URIs to barcode (The weird thing about this is the amount of information in the URI and the Spotify code do not match up.)
Error correction 
String encryption


Grey scale omg stop imaging I know what you all are thinking greyscale disease from Game of thrones well that is not what is used here.


